

I've made several assumptions in the creation of this project.

The first is perhaps the easiest to accept: we can judge the popularity of a subreddit not by its total follower count or its comment count, but instead by the total number of its unique users. This makes sense, practically. A single user can post 100 times, but if he is the only one in his community's discourse, the effect of the poster on others will be mostly null. Conversely, even if subreddits are viewed by many people, if very few of them leave comments in the discussion, the effect of the subreddit only portrays passive following. Though there are many users of Reddit who never post (affectionately known as 'Lurkers'), a large percentage of users post frequently, and it is through shared postings that real discussion is had, either in forwarding or dissuading the views of other Redditors. It is for this reason that popularity of subreddits here is measured by numbers of unique posters, as opposed to some other metric.

The second assumption made is that r/politics should be the neutral baseline political subreddit to focus on for this project. r/politics is the aptly-named subreddit devoted to American politics and political discussion; additionally, it is a default subreddit, which means that all new users of Reddit by default receive occasional posts from r/politics until they choose to opt out of such. Therefore, the influence of r/politics has a strong impact on the entire userbase as a whole, and anyone who has an opinion of American politics is free and encouraged to post in the r/politics subreddit.

Finally, for this project I have assumed that if two subreddits share a large number of posters, those communities can be said to be frequented by people of similar ideologies. For example, pretend that I myself frequently post in the subreddit dedicated to handbells (r/handbells). Additionally, I, like all handbell players, am very politically inclined, and I post in r/politics as well. If enough of us daring handbell players post in r/politics, we can be said to be an influential subreddit, or a subreddit that has a high count of shared users with r/politics.

Thus, the following graphs show the change in numbers of shared users between r/politics and other subreddits over time, normalized by different factors and frequencies. From these, we can visualize the importance of each subreddit and how its users change in political (among other) tastes over time.



These ranking graphs can be beneficial to see how much of an impact each subreddit has on r/politics over time, but it doesn't provide as much insight about when and where important events and ideas were trending in communities, or how important something is to one subreddit over another. It is with the goal to obtain these insights that the following interface has been created.

Using term frequency-inverse document frequency, a measure of word-importance across a corpus of text, I extracted the most important words found in r/politics over the past decade or so. From the entirety of the Reddit corpus, amounting to about 850 GB of refined comment data, I extracted subreddit-frequency counts for each of these keywords, where each frequency measures the number of comments from that subreddit that contains that keyword.

Below, you can choose from a selection of politically-aligned subreddits (as linked to in r/politics), as well from the automatically-retrieved keywords described above.

These graphs are built day-by-day, so they can be very spiky and hard to visualize. Smooth the graphs to make them more viewable, at the loss of measuring extreme spikes.

Because the number of commenters in subreddits vary drastically, it may be best to normalize the number of comments containing each keyword. Normalization divides the frequency count by the total number of comments in that subreddit, giving the percentage of comments over time that contain each keyword. However, given the fact that some subreddits may have only a single comment on a given day and that that comment may contain a keyword, there are instances where 100 percent of comments are relevant. This drastically skews normalized graphs, so there is an option to remove these outliers from the graphing.

If wanted, one can also measure the cumulative sum of these keyword-frequencies over time. The usefulness of this is currently unknown, but it was easy to implement so knock yourself out.

Finally, one can set custom start and enddates for the graph, if desired. Simply type in the date wanted in a YYYY-MM-DD format, and only datapoints between those spans will be plotted.










<div class="col-md-6 mr-auto tm-text-white">